PHPORM-174 Add doc for cache and locks (#2909)
jenssegers/laravel-mongodb: docs/cache.txt

.. _laravel-queues:

===============
Cache and Locks
===============

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: tutorial

.. meta::
   :keywords: php framework, cache, lock, code example

Configuration
-------------

In order to use MongoDB as backend for `Laravel Cache and Locks <https://laravel.com/docs/{+laravel-docs-version+}/cache>`__,
add a store configuration using the ``mongodb`` driver in ``config/cache.php``:

.. code-block:: php

   'stores' => [
       'mongodb' => [
           'driver' => 'mongodb',
           'connection' => 'mongodb',
           'collection' => 'cache',
           'lock_connection' => 'mongodb',
           'lock_collection' => 'cache_locks',
           'lock_lottery' => [2, 100],
           'lock_timeout' => 86400,
       ],
   ],

> TODO: add reference for all the options

Author: What's the best way to make a table of options (name, default, description)?

.. _laravel-queues:

===============
Cache and Locks
===============

.. facet::
   :name: genre

>    :values: tutorial

Reviewer: By convention, we only use "tutorial" if there are stepped code examples. Any other types of pages are "reference"

```suggestion
   :values: reference
```

.. meta::
   :keywords: php framework, cache, lock, code example

Configuration
-------------

> In order to use MongoDB as backend for `Laravel Cache and Locks <https://laravel.com/docs/{+laravel-docs-version+}/cache>`__,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use MongoDB as a backend for `Laravel Cache and Locks <https://laravel.com/docs/{+laravel-docs-version+}/cache>`__,
```

> add a store configuration using the ``mongodb`` driver in ``config/cache.php``:

Reviewer: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#std-term-using

```suggestion
add a store configuration by using the ``mongodb`` driver in ``config/cache.php``:
```

.. code-block:: php

   'stores' => [
       'mongodb' => [
           'driver' => 'mongodb',
           'connection' => 'mongodb',
           'collection' => 'cache',
           'lock_connection' => 'mongodb',
           'lock_collection' => 'cache_locks',
           'lock_lottery' => [2, 100],
           'lock_timeout' => 86400,
       ],
   ],

The following table describes a list of cache and lock options
and their default values:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 75

   * - Setting
     - Description

   * - ``driver``
     - **Required**. Specifies the lock driver to use. Must be ``mongodb``.

   * - ``connection``

>      - **Required**. The database connection to use to store cache items. It must be a ``mongodb`` connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - **Required**. The database connection used to store cache items. It must be a ``mongodb`` connection.
```

   * - ``collection``
     - Default ``cache``. Name of the MongoDB collection to store cache items.

   * - ``lock_connection``

>      - Default to the cache ``connection``. The database connection to use to store locks. It must be a ``mongodb`` connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Default to the cache ``connection``. The database connection used to store locks. It must be a ``mongodb`` connection.
```

   * - ``lock_collection``
     - Default ``cache_locks``. Name of the MongoDB collection to store locks.

   * - ``lock_lottery``

>      - Default ``[2, 100]``. Probability [chance, total] of pruning expired cache items. Set to [0, 0] to disable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Default ``[2, 100]``. Probability [chance, total] of pruning expired cache items. Set to [0, 0] to disable.
```

   * - ``lock_timeout``

>      - Default ``86400``. Time-to-live of the locks in seconds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Default ``86400``. Time-to-live of the locks, in seconds.
```

> Setup auto-expiration indexes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setup Auto-Expiration Indexes
```

-----------------------------

The :manual:`TTL indexes </core/index-ttl/>` integrated into MongoDB automatically

> delete documents when they have expired. Their use is optional with the ``mongodb``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
delete documents when they expire. Their use is optional with the ``mongodb``
```

> driver, but recommended as they provide better performance by delegating the

Reviewer: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#std-term-because

```suggestion
driver, but recommended, because they provide better performance by delegating the
```

deletion of expired documents to MongoDB instead of requiring the application to
perform this task randomly.

> The best way is to create the indexes with a migration calling the methods
> ``createTTLIndex()`` provided by both the cache and the lock stores:

Reviewer: Suggestion: I think this is more concise and a little more clear

```suggestion
Create the indexes with a migration that calls the
``createTTLIndex()`` methods provided by both the cache, and the lock stores:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/cache/migration.php
   :language: php
   :emphasize-lines: 11,12
   :dedent:

Then run the migration:

.. code-block:: none

>    $ php artisan migrate

Reviewer: Remove shell artifacts in code examples to make the line copy/paste-able without needing to edit

```suggestion
   php artisan migrate
```

> Alternatively, the index can be created using :mdb-shell:`MongoDB Shell <>` (``mongosh``):

Reviewer: Change passive voice to active

```suggestion
Alternatively, you can create the index by using :mdb-shell:`MongoDB Shell <>` (``mongosh``):
```

.. code-block:: ts

   db.cache.createIndex(
     /* Field that holds the expiration date */
     { expires_at: 1 },
     /* Delay to remove items after expiration */
     { expireAfterSeconds: 0 }
   )

If you use Locks, disable ``lock_lottery`` by setting the probability to ``0``:

.. code-block:: php
   :highlightLines: [4]

   'stores' => [
       'mongodb' => [
           'driver' => 'mongodb',
           'connection' => 'mongodb',
           'lock_lottery' => [0, 100], // Disabled
       ],
   ],

> Using MongoDB cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using MongoDB Cache
```

-------------------

The Laravel cache can be used to store any serializable data using the facade

> ``Illuminate\Support\Facades\Cache``:

Reviewer: Change colon to period since the code example doesn't immediately follow this sentence

```suggestion
``Illuminate\Support\Facades\Cache``.
```

> In this example:
> - Gets the cache repository with the store ``mongodb``,
> - Tries to read and return the cache item named ``foo``,
> - If missing, calls the closure to compute the value, store this value forever and return it.

Reviewer: Introduce the list with a full sentence (and add space for rst). We also don't end list items with punctuation if they are sentence fragments (and end with a period only for full sentences):

```suggestion
This example performs the following actions:

- Gets the cache repository with the ``mongodb`` store
- Tries to read and return the cache item named ``foo``
- If missing, calls the closure to compute the value, stores the value forever, and returns it
```

> ..code-block:: php

Author: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: php
```

   use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Cache;

   $value = Cache::store('mongodb')->get('foo', function () {
       return [1, 2, 3];
   });

> The default, cached objects do not expire. It is possible to define an expiry time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, cached objects do not expire. However, it is possible to define an expiry time, as shown in the following example:
```

> ..code-block:: php

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: php
```

   Cache::store('mongodb')->set('foo', 'abc', '1 day');

> Incrementing and decrementing a value is also supported, the value must
> be initialized before. The following example initialize the counter to ``3``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Incrementing and decrementing a value is also supported if the value is
initialized before. The following example initializes the counter to ``3``,
```

> adds 5 and removes 2.

Reviewer: Our style guide advocates for oxford commas:

```suggestion
adds 5, and removes 2.
```

> ..code-block:: php

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: php
```

   Cache::store('mongodb')->set('counter', 3);
   Cache::store('mongodb')->increment('counter', 5);
   Cache::store('mongodb')->decrement('counter', 2);

.. note::

   {+odm-short+} supports incrementing and decrementing with integer and float values.

> Configuring MongoDB as default cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring MongoDB as Default Cache
```

------------------------------------

To use the ``mongodb`` store by default, change the default store in
``config/cache.php``:

.. code-block:: php
   :emphasize-lines: 2

   return [
       'default' => env('CACHE_STORE', 'mongodb'),

       'stores' => [
           'mongodb' => [
               'driver' => 'mongodb',
               'connection' => 'mongodb',
           ],
       ],
   ];

> The variable ``CACHE_STORE`` could be set in your environment or in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The variable ``CACHE_STORE`` can be set in your environment or in
```

> the ``.env`` file. Update or remove it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the ``.env`` file. Update or remove it as follows:
```

.. code-block:: none

   CACHE_STORE=mongodb

Then you can use the ``Illuminate\Support\Facades\Cache`` facade and
automatic injection:

.. code-block:: php

   use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Cache;

   Cache::get('foo', 5);

> This example shows how to use automatic injection of the cache
> manager, using the default store. It is a controller that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to use automatic injection of the cache
manager by using the default store. The example creates a controller that
```

increments a counter each time it is invoked.

.. code-block:: php

>    :emphasize-lines: 9,14

Reviewer: I think you may have meant to highlight 9 and 13? The function names?

```suggestion
   :emphasize-lines: 9,13
```

Author: I think 14 is correct, it's the line with `return $this->cache->increment('counter');`

Author: You are right. Both lines need to be udpated.
```suggestion
   :emphasize-lines: 10,15
```

Reviewer: I think these should be lines 10 and 15 to highlight the `CacheManager` line and the `return this-> ...` line

   <?php

   namespace App\Http\Controllers;

   use App\Contracts\CacheManager;

   class CountController extends Controller
   {
       public function __construct(
           private CacheManager $cache,
       ) {}

       public function hit(): int
       {
           return $this->cache->increment('counter');
       }
   }

Using MongoDB Lock
------------------

Atomic locks allow for the manipulation of distributed locks without worrying

> about race conditions.

Reviewer: Introduce the example before showing

```suggestion
about race conditions. The following example implements an atomic lock:
```

> ..code-block:: php

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: php
```

.. _laravel-queues:

===============
Cache and Locks
===============

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: php framework, cache, lock, code example

Configuration
-------------

> To use MongoDB as a backend for `Laravel Cache and Locks <https://laravel.com/docs/{+laravel-docs-version+}/cache>`__,

Reviewer 2: Does `{+laravel-docs-version+}` vary between branches of our own docs, or is it just defined in one place to always refer to the latest version?

I'm not sure why we'd want to link to old versions, as we generally don't do that with the MongoDB server docs. And I also don't see how sourcing the Laravel docs version from a configuration value helps with checking links (in the event a URL is renamed or removed).

Author: It is configured per doc branch: https://github.com/10gen/docs-laravel/blob/3e1dda648fe16ed370380bf65ca0cb2fb9ca1d65/snooty.toml#L27

I think that allows to update all the links when there is a new version of Laravel. But we still need to check for broken links.

Old versions of our doc will link to all versions of the Laravel doc, probably the  latest laravel version supported by each laravel-mongodb version.

> add a store configuration by using the ``mongodb`` driver in ``config/cache.php``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
add a store configuration by specifying the ``mongodb`` driver in ``config/cache.php``:
```

.. code-block:: php

   'stores' => [
       'mongodb' => [
           'driver' => 'mongodb',
           'connection' => 'mongodb',
           'collection' => 'cache',
           'lock_connection' => 'mongodb',
           'lock_collection' => 'cache_locks',
           'lock_lottery' => [2, 100],
           'lock_timeout' => 86400,
       ],
   ],

To configure the ``mongodb`` database connection, see the :ref:`laravel-fundamentals-connection` section.

The following table describes a list of cache and lock options
and their default values:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 75

   * - Setting
     - Description

   * - ``driver``
     - **Required**. Specifies the lock driver to use. Must be ``mongodb``.

   * - ``connection``
     - **Required**. The database connection used to store cache items. It must be a ``mongodb`` connection.

   * - ``collection``

>      - Default ``cache``. Name of the MongoDB collection to store cache items.

Reviewer 2: I didn't pick up on this when reviewing the original PRs, so forgive me for asking this late: where does the database name come from? Are you relying on whatever is configured through the corresponding `connection` option (for both this and `lock_collection`)?

Author: The database name is set in the database connection configuration. Do you think we should add an option to change the database name for cache and lock?

Reviewer 2: You can also consider allowing a namespace for the `collection` and `lock_collection` options, and parsing out a database name by exploding on a dot character (no issue since it's prohibited in each part per [Naming Restrictions](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/limits/#naming-restrictions).

Otherwise, I'm fine keeping this as-is and revisiting if/when someone asks for further customization.

Author: The default is applied in the service provider.
https://github.com/mongodb/laravel-mongodb/blob/f95eb66f5920a368cf665fe3fb4d158558745a67/src/MongoDBServiceProvider.php#L51

Author: Tracking this feature: PHPORM-176

   * - ``lock_connection``
     - Default to the cache ``connection``. The database connection used to store locks. It must be a ``mongodb`` connection.

   * - ``lock_collection``
     - Default ``cache_locks``. Name of the MongoDB collection to store locks.

   * - ``lock_lottery``
     - Default ``[2, 100]``. Probability ``[chance, total]`` of pruning expired cache items. Set to ``[0, 0]`` to disable.

   * - ``lock_timeout``
     - Default ``86400``. Time-to-live of the locks, in seconds.

Setup Auto-Expiration Indexes

> -----------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set Up Auto-Expiration Indexes
-------------------------------
```

The :manual:`TTL indexes </core/index-ttl/>` integrated into MongoDB automatically
delete documents when they expire. Their use is optional with the ``mongodb``

> driver, but recommended, because they provide better performance by delegating the

Reviewer: I'd suggest splitting this into two sentences to enhance readability
```suggestion
driver, but recommended. The indexes provide better performance by delegating the
```

deletion of expired documents to MongoDB instead of requiring the application to

> perform this task randomly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
perform this task independently.
```

While the deletion is certainly random, I don't think that's relevant to the point you're trying to make here about efficiency. Alternatively, you can just say "perform this task." and leave it at that.

Author: ```suggestion
perform this task.
```

Create the indexes with a migration that calls the
``createTTLIndex()`` methods provided by both the cache, and the lock stores:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/cache/migration.php
   :language: php
   :emphasize-lines: 11,12
   :dedent:

Then run the migration:

.. code-block:: none

   php artisan migrate

> Alternatively, you can create the index by using :mdb-shell:`MongoDB Shell <>` (``mongosh``):

Reviewer 2: What purpose does `<>` serve in the `:mdb-shell:` syntax?

Author: It links to https://www.mongodb.com/docs/mongodb-shell, without subpath. I copied this from an other place in the doc.

.. code-block:: ts

   db.cache.createIndex(
     /* Field that holds the expiration date */
     { expires_at: 1 },
     /* Delay to remove items after expiration */
     { expireAfterSeconds: 0 }
   )

If you use Locks, disable ``lock_lottery`` by setting the probability to ``0``:

.. code-block:: php

>    :highlightLines: [4]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :emphasize-lines: 4
```

The Laravel cache can be used to store any serializable data using the facade
``Illuminate\Support\Facades\Cache``.

This example performs the following actions:

- Gets the cache repository with the ``mongodb`` store
- Tries to read and return the cache item named ``foo``
- If missing, calls the closure to compute the value, stores the value forever, and returns it

.. code-block:: php

   use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Cache;

   $value = Cache::store('mongodb')->get('foo', function () {
       return [1, 2, 3];
   });

By default, cached objects do not expire. However, it is possible to define an expiry time, as shown in the following example:

.. code-block:: php

   Cache::store('mongodb')->set('foo', 'abc', '1 day');

Incrementing and decrementing a value is also supported if the value is
initialized before. The following example initializes the counter to ``3``,
adds 5, and removes 2.

.. code-block:: php

   Cache::store('mongodb')->set('counter', 3);
   Cache::store('mongodb')->increment('counter', 5);
   Cache::store('mongodb')->decrement('counter', 2);

.. note::

   {+odm-short+} supports incrementing and decrementing with integer and float values.

> For more information on using cache, see the `Laravel Cache documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about using the cache, see the `Laravel Cache documentation
```

<https://laravel.com/docs/{+laravel-docs-version+}/cache#cache-usage>`__.

> Configuring MongoDB as Default Cache
> ------------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring MongoDB as the Default Cache
----------------------------------------
```

To use the ``mongodb`` store by default, change the default store in
``config/cache.php``:

.. code-block:: php
   :emphasize-lines: 2

   return [
       'default' => env('CACHE_STORE', 'mongodb'),

       'stores' => [
           'mongodb' => [
               'driver' => 'mongodb',

>                'connection' => 'mongodb',

Reviewer 2: Should `collection` and various `lock` options be specified here?

Also, is there any significance to the line break between `default` and `stores` in the configuration array? I believe you're already emphasizing the `default` line, so I don't think a line break is necessary for readability.

Author: Here, I rely on the default values. Do you think I should make a note of that?

Reviewer 2: Calling out your reliance on default values makes sense to me.

I was mostly concerned with `collection`. The MongoLock constructor requires a value for its Collection parameter, and I didn't see where the default gets supplied.

Author: "co**nn**ection" is required, "co**ll**ection" has a default value which is `cache`. These 2 words are so similar that they can easily be confused.

The default is applied in the service provider.
https://github.com/mongodb/laravel-mongodb/blob/f95eb66f5920a368cf665fe3fb4d158558745a67/src/MongoDBServiceProvider.php#L51

           ],
       ],
   ];

> The variable ``CACHE_STORE`` can be set in your environment or in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``CACHE_STORE`` variable can be set in your environment or in
```

Configuring MongoDB as the Default Cache
----------------------------------------

To use the ``mongodb`` store by default, change the default store in
``config/cache.php``.

.. code-block:: php
   :emphasize-lines: 2

   return [
       'default' => env('CACHE_STORE', 'mongodb'),
       'stores' => [
           'mongodb' => [
               'driver' => 'mongodb',
               'connection' => 'mongodb',
           ],
       ],
   ];

.. note::

   We have deliberately omitted all optional parameters in the previous example,
   so the default values are applied.

The ``CACHE_STORE`` variable can be set in your environment or in
the ``.env`` file. Update or remove it as follows:

.. code-block:: none

   CACHE_STORE=mongodb

Then you can use the ``Illuminate\Support\Facades\Cache`` facade and
automatic injection:

.. code-block:: php

   use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Cache;

   Cache::get('foo', 5);

The following example shows how to use automatic injection of the cache
manager by using the default store. The example creates a controller that
increments a counter each time it is invoked.

.. code-block:: php

>    :emphasize-lines: 8,13

Reviewer: Confirming that this is getting updated to:
```suggestion
   :emphasize-lines: 10,15
```
